---
categories:
- book
- reading
- 2018
- Q3
- self-study
- codurance
- aprendices
- reading-club
comments: true
date: 2018-09-30T21:00:00Z
title: Books read in 2018Q3
url: /blog/2018/09/30/books-read-2018q3/
---

[deaprendices]: https://twitter.com/@deaprendices
[codurance]: https://twitter.com/@codurance

Read this quarter:

Note: re+read means I'm re-reading this book. The (+) stands for one-or-more times, as in the regexes.

  - Ética a Nicómaco; Aristóteles
  - Book of Transformation; Dalai Lama

## Ética a Nicómaco; Aristóteles

I've read this book on philosophy and ethics. This book contains an analysis of the relationship between the personality, intelligence and happiness.

Tries to describe what 'virtues' are, that they belong in a continuum of acts, aand the good term is always in the middle. Example: between cowardliness and temerity, there is braveness. The two extremes, and the middle or virtue, respectively.

This book describes the meaning of life, according to Aristotle; how to lead your life, as well.

Note: this book was a gift from some friends. To people from Payments, thank you so much

## Book of transformation; Dalai Lama

I've read this book based on teaching from the Dalai Lama, on the importance of love, compassion, balanced attitudes, and positive thinking.

Contains the eight verses on transforming the mind, a lo-jong text, written in the 11th century by Langri Thangpa.

Contains four parts:

  - The basis of transformation
  - Transforming though altruism
  - Transformation through insight
  - The eight verses of transforming the mind

